title: 2021 Update
date: 2021-01-31

Hope I’m not too late to the party. It’s still January and I wanted to share some updates and my personal outlook for 2021.

## Status Update

At the moment, I’m enrolled in a [product management degree](https://code.berlin/en/) and halfway through Harvard’s OpenCourseWare introduction to computer science. I have rudimentary experience with computer science and web technologies, and, I want improve on my foundational knowledge, so I can build and work with other people more easily.

My main goal for this year is to learn as much as I can, while wrapping up the remaining coursework. Closing old doors so I can move on and open new.

Having that in mind, you can expect me to write more on topics concerning ethics, justice, society, technology and product design, as they are all part of my coursework.

## Owning your platform

Whether Donald Trump’s Facebook ban and subsequent bans by Twitter, Reddit, Twitch, Shopify, and Snapchat were the right decision, they certainly opened a precedent that puts a free and open internet at risk. Following the crisis at the Capitol, Parler, an app used by far-right extremists was suspended by both Google and Apple’s app stores and Amazon even stopped providing Parler with their cloud services.

This reminds me we don’t own the platforms where we spend so much of our time sharing content and building an audience. We don’t control what happens to them. They can go away over night and our leverage along with it. — That’s what happened with Vine. And what could happen with TikTok or Snapchat.

And the widely publicised ban on the President of the United States sheds light on what many makers go through every day. Apps are taken away, channels are demonetised. Sometimes legitimately, other times by mistakes caused by algorithms.

If you are a maker. If you produce and distribute any kind of content online, the lesson is clear. Have direct access to your audience. Own your platform [1]. — And that is why I’m building my own.

## Introducing maliks.blog

Thanks to the aforementioned computer science class and to amazing people like Kaustubh Vaghmare, I was able to get comfortable enough to build [2] the new home for my digital content, maliks.blog.

I’ll be moving my content and newsletter to maliks.blog. And subsequently, your email address (in case you’re a subscriber). That means, only I will have access to your data and there will be no email spy trackers. Everything I write will be updated as time goes by in order to make the content relevant. Every change I make to the articles is registered publicly which means, you’ll always be able to see when I made changes and if I removed content.

Why this matters is because now, you can find and interact with the content I create more easily and in a more dynamic way.  Soon enough you’ll also be able to search for and find content that’s relevant to you with tags and categories.

Thank you for reading all the way through. I leave you with wishes for a year of improvement and a lot of magic.

[1] - Newsletters are the easiest way to keep our audience. Unlike most platforms where our content lives, they give you data ownership. And email is a standard that won’t be going away anytime soon.

[2] - More accurately, I wrote Moon, the “engine” that powers it. It’s a trivial app built on Flask that acts as a static site generator. There are literally hundreds of tools and frameworks, and a million of static site generators out there. The reason I’m building my own is because I want to learn and I think this experience might make me better as a product manager. I’m particularly excited because Moon can be expanded as I acquire more experience and knowledge. To eventually become a fully fledged blogging platform or content management system like Wordpress or Blogspot (naturally, way less sophisticated).